<!-- image -->

EASA AD No.: 2025-0254R1

## Airworthiness Directive

AD No.:

2025-0254R1

Issued:

05 December 2025

Note: This Airworthiness Directive (AD) is issued by EASA, acting in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 on behalf of the European Union, its Member States and of the European third countries that participate in the activities of EASA under Article 129 of that Regulation.

This AD is issued in accordance with Regulation (EU) 748/2012, Part 21.A.3B. In accordance with Regulation (EU) 1321/2014 Annex I Part M.A.301, or Annex Vb Part ML.A.301, as applicable, the continuing airworthiness of an aircraft shall be ensured by accomplishing any applicable ADs. Consequently, no person may operate an aircraft to which an AD applies, except in accordance with the requirements of that AD, unless otherwise specified by the Agency [Regulation (EU) 1321/2014 Annex I Part M.A.303, or Annex Vb Part ML.A.303, as applicable] or agreed with the Authority of the State of Registry [Regulation (EU) 2018/1139, Article 71 exemption].

## Design Approval Holder's Name:

AIRBUS S.A.S.

## Type/Model designation(s):

A320 and A321 aeroplanes

Effective Date:

Revision 01: 08 December 2025

Original Issue: 08 December 2025

TCDS Number(s):

EASA.A.064

Foreign AD:

Not applicable

Revision:

This AD revises EASA AD 2025-0254 dated 17 November 2025 including its correction dated 28 November 2025, which superseded EASA AD 2007-0162 dated 12 June 2007, and EASA AD 2014-0169 dated 17 July 2014, including its correction dated 22 July 2014.

## ATA 57 -Wing -Main Landing Gear Retraction Actuator Fitting -Inspection

## Manufacturer(s):

Airbus, formerly Airbus Industrie

## Applicability:

Airbus A320-211, A320-212, A320-214, A320-215, A320-216, A320-231, A320-232 and A320-233 aeroplanes, all manufacturer serial numbers (MSN), except those on which Airbus modification (mod) 24591 has been embodied in production and except those on which have Airbus Service Bulletin (SB) A320-57-1089 at Revision 04 has been embodied in service;

and

Airbus A321-111, A321-112 and A321-131, all MSN, except those on which Airbus mod 24977 has been embodied in production.

## Definitions:

For the purpose of this AD, the following definitions apply:

Affected parts:

Main Landing Gear (MLG) retraction actuator fitting on the rear spar.

<!-- image -->

The SB: Airbus SB A320-57-1256.

## Groups:

Group 1 aeroplanes are A321 aeroplanes, which are not Group 2 aeroplanes.

Group 2 aeroplanes are A321 aeroplanes having MSN 364 or MSN 385.

Group 3 aeroplanes are A320 aeroplanes on which, before the effective date of this AD, Airbus SB A320-57-1089 has not been embodied.

Group 4 aeroplanes are A320 aeroplanes which are not Group 3

## Reason:

Fatigue cracks were detected on the inner rear spar following in-service inspections or extended service goal fatigue test.

This condition, if not detected and corrected, could affect the structural integrity of the aeroplane.

To address this potential unsafe condition, EASA issued EASA AD 2007-0162 and AD 2014-0169 to require repetitive inspections of areas in the inner rear spar.

Since those ADs were issued, a fuel leak was reported from the location of the main landing gear retraction actuator fitting on the rear spar. Upon further investigation of this finding, cracks were also found on fasteners, leading to the reported fuel leak. Potential root cause of these cracks was identified to be extended corrosion following moisture ingress linked to insufficient re-sealing application as per SB A320-57-1089 up to Revision 3 and A320-57-1100 up to Revision 3.

This condition, if not detected and corrected, could affect the structural integrity of the aeroplane.

To address this potential unsafe condition, Airbus issued the SB, as defined in this AD, providing instructions to inspect the affected parts. Consequently, EASA issued AD 2025-0254, later corrected, retaining the requirements of EASA AD 2007-0162 and partially retaining the requirements of EASA AD 2014-0169, which were superseded, and requiring accomplishment of a one-time detailed inspection (DET).

Since that AD was issued, comments were received and it was determined that paragraphs (1), (7) and (8) of this AD can be amended. Paragraph (1) of this AD does not apply to Group 1 aeroplanes having SB A320-57-1100 embodied; after modification as required by paragraph (7) in accordance with SB A320-57-1089 Revision 04, no additional inspection is required by this AD for that aeroplane; and the applicability of paragraph (8) was clarified.

For the reason described above, this AD is revised and paragraphs (1), (7) and (8) of this AD are updated accordingly.

## Required Action(s) and Compliance Time(s):

Required as indicated by this AD, unless the action(s) required by this AD have been already accomplished:

<!-- image -->

## Inspection(s) :

- (1) For Group 1 aeroplanes, except aeroplanes modified in accordance with the instructions of Airbus SB A320-57-1100 : Before exceeding 37 300 flight hours (FH) or 20 000 flight cycles (FC), whichever occurs first since first flight of the aeroplane, and, thereafter, at intervals not exceeding 10 200 FH or 5 500 FC, whichever occurs first, accomplish a DET of the left-hand (LH) and right-hand (RH) wing inner rear spars, at the attachment holes of the MLG anchorage fitting and forward pintle fitting, in accordance with the instructions of SB A320-57-1101 Revision 04.
- (2) For Group 2 aeroplanes: Before exceeding 39 400 FH or 24 000 FC, whichever occurs first since first flight of the aeroplane, and, thereafter, at intervals not exceeding 5 600 FH or 3 600 FC, whichever occurs first, accomplish a DET of the LH and RH wing inner rear spars, at the attachment holes of the MLG rib 5 fitting, anchorage fitting and forward pintle fitting, in accordance with the instructions of SB A320-57-1126.

## Corrective Action(s) :

- (3) If, during any inspection as required by paragraph (1) of this AD, discrepancies, as described in SB A320-57-1101 Revision 04, are detected, before next flight, contact Airbus for approved repair instructions and, within the compliance time specified therein, accomplish those instructions accordingly.
- (4) If, during any inspection as required by paragraph (2) of this AD, discrepancies, as described in SB A320-57-1126, are detected, before next flight, contact Airbus for approved repair instructions and, within the compliance time specified therein, accomplish those instructions accordingly.

## Partial Restatement of the Requirements of EASA AD 2014-0169

## Inspection(s) :

- (5) For Group 3 aeroplanes: Within the compliance time as specified in Table 1 of this AD, as applicable, and, thereafter, at intervals not exceeding 6 700 FH or 3 600 FC, whichever occurs first, inspect the wing rear spar Part A and Part B in accordance with the instructions of Airbus SB A320-57-1088, as applicable.

Table 1 -Inspection Threshold SB A320-57-1088 for Parts A & B

## Compliance Time

Part A Before exceeding 17 300 FC or 32 300 FH, whichever occurs first since aeroplane first flight

Part B Before exceeding 37 300 FH or 20 000 FC, whichever occurs first since aeroplane first flight

## Corrective Action(s) :

- (6) If, during any inspection as required by paragraph (5) of this AD, discrepancies, as described in SB A320-57-1088, are detected, before next flight, contact Airbus for approved repair instructions and, within the compliance time specified therein, accomplish those instructions accordingly.

<!-- image -->

EASA AD No.: 2025-0254R1

## Partial Restatement of the Requirements of EASA AD 2007-0162

## New Requirements of the original issue of this AD (EASA AD 2025-0254)

## Modification

- (7) For Group 3 aeroplanes: Before exceeding 48 000 FC or 96 000 FH, whichever occurs first since first flight of the aeroplane, modify the aeroplane in accordance with the instructions of Airbus SB A320-57-1089 Revision 04.

## Inspection(s) :

- (8) For Group 1 aeroplanes and Group 4 aeroplanes having embodied SB A320-57-1089 at any revision lower than Revision 04 (for Group 4 aeroplanes): Within 24 months after the effective date of this AD, accomplish the DET inspection on the affected parts, in accordance with the instructions of the SB.

## Corrective Action(s) :

- (9) If, during the inspection as required by paragraph (8) of this AD, discrepancies are detected, before next flight, contact Airbus for approved instructions and, within the compliance time specified therein, accomplish those instructions accordingly.
- (10) For Group 3 aeroplanes: From the effective date of this AD, do not accomplish SB A320-57-1089 at any revision lower than Revision 04.

## Terminating Action:

- (11) Accomplishment of a repair/corrective action on an aeroplane as required by paragraph (3), (4), (6) or (9) of this AD, does not constitute terminating action for the repetitive inspections as required by paragraph (1), (2) or (5), as applicable, of this AD for that aeroplane, unless specified otherwise in those approved repair instructions.
- (12) Accomplishment of the modification as required by paragraph (7) of this AD constitutes terminating action for the repetitive inspections as required by paragraph (5) of this AD for that aeroplane.

## Ref. Publications:

Airbus SB A320-57-1060 original issue dated 08 December 1992, or Revision 01 dated 26 April 1993, or Revision 02 dated 16 December 1994.

Airbus SB A320-57-1088 original issue dated 30 September 1996, or Revision 01 dated 17 September 1997, or Revision 02 dated 29 July 1999, or Revision 03 dated 09 February 2001, or Revision 04 dated 06 August 2001.

Airbus SB A320-57-1089 original issue dated 22 December 1996, or Revision 01 dated 17 April 1997, or Revision 02 dated 06 November 1998, or Revision 03 dated 09 February 2001, or Revision 04 dated 25 April 2025.

Airbus SB A320-57-1101 original issue dated 24 July 1997, or Revision 01 dated 19 January 1999, or Revision 02 dated 25 October 2001, or Revision 03 dated 30 July 2003, or Revision 04 dated 22 November 2004.

<!-- image -->

Airbus SB A320-57-1126 original issue dated 08 August 2003.

Airbus SB A320-57-1256 original issue dated 27 June 2024.

The use of later approved revisions of the above-mentioned documents is acceptable for compliance with the requirements of this AD.

## Remarks:

1. If requested and appropriately substantiated, EASA can approve Alternative Methods of Compliance for this AD.
2. This AD was posted on 16 September 2025 as PAD 25-146 for consultation until 14 October 2025. The Comment Response Document can be found in the EASA Safety Publications Tool, in the compressed (zipped) file attached to the record for this AD.
3. Enquiries regarding this AD should be referred to the EASA Safety Information Section, Certification Directorate. E-mail: ADs@easa.europa.eu.
4. Information about any failures, malfunctions, defects or other occurrences, which may be similar to the unsafe condition addressed by this AD, and which may occur, or have occurred on a product, part or appliance not affected by this AD, can be reported to the EU aviation safety reporting system. This may include reporting on the same or similar components, other than those covered by the design to which this AD applies, if the same unsafe condition can exist or may develop on an aircraft with those components installed. Such components may be installed under an FAA Parts Manufacturer Approval (PMA), Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) or other modification.
5. For any question concerning the technical content of the requirements in this AD, please contact: AIRBUS -Airworthiness Office -1IASA; E-mail: account.airworth-eas@airbus.com.

<!-- image -->
